Cheese StrawsThis is my Nana’s cheese straw recipe. Nancy Frances Seats Sisk was born in 1928 in Lewisville, NC to a family that owned a small farm and a Mom and Pop store (literally: mygreat-grandparents were actually known to customers and family as “Mom” and “Pop”). This is my great grandmother Ethel Seats’s recipe modified by my grandmother for the 1950s-1970s taste for processed food. For that era, everything from a national brand seemed better than local alternatives. Cheese straws are a Winston-Salem, NC favorite—they are spicy cheese cookies, bizarre to Western PA folk but delicious. I grew up eating cheese straws as party snacks, particularly around Christmas. Nana gives my dad, Richard K. Triplette (born 1952) a full Tupperware container of these every Christmas as his present. When I make this recipe hipster style, I substitute unsalted butter for the Parkay and replace the Kraft cheese with the nicest, sharpest cheddar I can find. I reduce cooking time to 10 minutes, and I quadruple the recipe to get a full tupperware container. Instead of red pepper flakes I use Sriracha or my hometown hot sauce, Texas Pete, made in Winston-Salem, NC. My grandmother wrote this 3 X 5 recipe card around 1980 and gave it to me at Christmas in 2014. I took this photo to prove to Nana that I could make her recipe “my way” and it would look exactly the same. Note Nana’s handwriting. It’s very typical for her era, and she was known to have only “average” penmanship. Nana graduated from a Winston-Salem high school at a time when this was a major accomplishment, especially for a woman from a rural family. Some of the girls in my Nana’s family graduated high school, but only one of the boys, her younger brother Worth, was allowed to stay in school instead of working on the farm or joining the army. She worked as a hairstylist from the 1950’s up until c. 2000. She married my grandfather, Victor Sisk, who did not have a high school degree but had served in the army and worked as a plant manager at The Salem Company (a textile company) in 1947. My mom, Kathy Sisk Triplette, born 1951, is their first of two daughters.