Cheese Straws
Stacey Triplette

This is my Nana's cheese straw recipe. Nancy Frances Seats Sisk was born in 1928 in 
Lewisville, NC to a family that owned a small farm and a Mom and Pop store (literally: my great-
grandparents were actually known to customers and family as Mom and Pop). This is my 
great grandmother Ethel Seats's recipe modified by my grandmother (called Frances or Fanny) for the 1950s-1970s taste 
for processed food. For that era, everything from a national brand seemed better than local 
alternatives. Cheese straws are a Winston-Salem, NC favorite. They are spicy cheese cookies, 
bizarre but delicious. I grew up eating cheese straws as party snacks, particularly around Christmas. 
Nana gives my dad, Richard K. Triplette (born 1952) a full  Tupperware container of these every Christmas as his present.
When I make this recipe hipster style, I substitute unsalted butter for the Parkay and replace the Kraft cheese with the nicest, sharpest cheddar I can find. I reduce cooking time to 10 minutes, and I quadruple the recipe to 
get a full tupperware container. Instead of red pepper flakes I use Sriracha or my hometown hot 
sauce, Texas Pete, made in Winston-Salem, NC. My grandmother wrote this 3 X 5 recipe card 
around 1980 and gave it to me at Christmas in 2014. I took this photo to prove to Nana that I 
could make her recipe my way and it would look exactly the same. Note Nana's handwriting. 
It's very typical for her era, and she was known to have only average penmanship. Nana 
graduated from a Winston-Salem high school at a time when this was a major accomplishment, 
especially for a woman from a rural family. Some of the girls among my Nana's eleven siblings graduated 
high school, but only one of the boys, her younger brother Worth, was allowed to stay in school. He eventually
became a high school teacher. Nana's other brothers worked on the farm and then joined the army, leaving school around the sixth grade. Nana worked as a hairstylist from the 1950's up until c. 2000. She married my grandfather, Victor Sisk, who did not have a high school degree. Victor served as an army radio operator during WWI and afterward found a job as plant manager in a typical
a textile company, The Salem Company (later Lucia). My mom, Kathy Sisk Triplette, born 1951, is their first of two daughters. 
